#Evicting Table Data from Memory
You can configure tables with least recently used (LRU) eviction and expiration to manage the amount of data that is managed in memory in a SnappyData distributed system. You can choose whether to remove evicted data from the SnappyData system (reducing the size of the total data set) or to persist the evicted data in disk store operational log files so that the data can be reloaded as needed to satisfy future queries.

* [How LRU Eviction Works](how_eviction_works.md): SnappyData keeps a table’s data use under a specified level by removing the least recently used (LRU) data to free memory for new data. You configure table eviction settings based on entry count, the percentage of available heap, or the absolute memory usage of table data. You also configure the action that SnappyData should take to evict data: destroy the data (for partitioned tables only) or overflow data to a disk store, creating a “overflow table.”
* [Limitations of Eviction](limitations_of_eviction.md): LRU eviction is only effective for operations that operate on a primary key value.
* [Eviction in Partitioned Tables](eviction_in_partitioned_tables.md): In partitioned tables, SnappyData removes the oldest entry it can find in the bucket where the new entry operation is being performed. SnappyData maintains LRU entry information on a bucket-by-bucket basis, because the performance cost of maintaining information across the entire partitioned table is too great.
* [Create a Table with Eviction Settings](create_table_with_eviction_setting.md):Use eviction settings to keep your table within a specified limit, either by removing evicted data completely or by creating an overflow table that persists the evicted data to a disk store.