docs/quickstart/getting_started_with_docker_image.md, before:

<a id="getting-started-with-docker-image"></a>
# Getting Started with Docker Image

TIBCO ComputeDB comes with a pre-configured Docker image. It has binaries for TIBCO ComputeDB, which enables you to try the quick start program and more, with TIBCO ComputeDB.

This section assumes you have already installed and configured Docker properly. Refer to [Docker documentation](http://docs.docker.com/installation/) for more details.

## Verify that Docker is Installed</br> 
In the command prompt run the command:

```pre
$ docker run hello-world

```

!!! Note
	Ensure that the Docker containers have access to at least 4GB of RAM on your machine.

## Get the Docker Image</br>
In the command prompt, type the following command to get the Docker image. This starts the container and takes you to the Spark shell.

```pre
$  docker run -it -p 5050:5050 snappydatainc/snappydata bin/spark-shell
```

The latest image files start downloading to your local machine. Depending on your network connection, it may take some time. </br>

Once you have launched the Spark shell, in the `$ scala>` prompt, follow the steps explained [here](using_spark_scala_apis.md).</br>

For more details about TIBCO ComputeDB Docker image see [Snappy Cloud Tools](https://github.com/SnappyDataInc/snappy-cloud-tools/tree/master/docker).

Commit message:

* Updates to Docker, k8s and AMI content. * Version changes from 1.0.2.2 to 1.1.0

docs/quickstart/getting_started_with_docker_image.md, after:

<a id="getting-started-with-docker-image"></a>
# Getting Started with Docker Image

Following steps outline how to build a Docker image if one has the binaries of TIBCO ComputeDB.
TIBCO ComputeDB does not provide a Docker image.

Before building the Docker image, ensure you have already installed and configured Docker properly. Refer to [Docker documentation](http://docs.docker.com/installation/) for more details.

## Verify that Docker is Installed</br> 
In the command prompt run the command:

```pre
$ docker run hello-world

```

<a id="build-your-docker"></a>
## Build your own Docker image of TIBCO ComputeDB</br>

We have provided a sample Dockerfile which you can use to create your own Docker image of TIBCO ComputeDB.
Download the [Dockerfile]() and [start]() script place into a single directory. This Dockerfile uses the SnappyData 1.1.0 build.
Move to that directory and run below commands with appropriate details.

    $ docker build -t <your-docker-repo-name>/snappydata:<image-tag> -f Dockerfile .
    $ docker push <your-docker-repo-name>/snappydata:<image-tag>

    For example:

    $ docker build -t snappydatainc/snappydata:1.1.0 -f Dockerfile .
    $ docker push snappydatainc/snappydata:1.1.0


## Launch TIBCO ComputeDB</br>
In the command prompt, type the following command to launch the TIBCO ComputeDB cluster in single container.
This fetches the Docker image from your Docker registry, if the image is not available locally, and launches the cluster in a container and takes you to the Spark shell.

!!! Note
	Ensure that the Docker containers have access to at least 4GB of RAM on your machine.

```pre
$  docker run -it -p 5050:5050 <your-docker-registry>/snappydata bin/spark-shell
```

The latest Docker image file starts downloading to your local machine. Depending on your network connection, it may take some time. </br>

Once you have launched the Spark shell, in the `$ scala>` prompt, follow the steps explained [here](using_spark_scala_apis.md).</br>

For more details about how you can work with the Docker image see [Snappy Cloud Tools](https://github.com/SnappyDataInc/snappy-cloud-tools/tree/master/docker).
